---
title: About
---

# A quick summary about me.

Maybe you already read: my name is Alexander and I'm a
passionate fullstack developer from Germany.

My focus constantly shifts depending on the demands of the team or
project, or the trends I am currently pursuing. My strength lies
primarily in the frontend, although I also have a grasp of everything
(more or less) from backend to operations. Currently, I hold a
management role in our team, where I work on finding the right
technology for projects and planning our resources. This could involve
LEAN approaches to quickly implement a project with everything necessary
at a specific time, or addressing scalability issues. Most importantly,
I value that we all enjoy our work, are challenged, and can take pride
in our projects. When I'm not at the computer working on a project or
evaluating a side project, I like to go out, run, hike, climb, or make
music. I have a penchant for everything extraordinary and appreciate
good music and drinks.

## My Journey in Development

Embarking as a PHP developer during version 5.3, my journey evolved to
spotlight the frontend and JavaScript. Since 2019, TypeScript has become
my primary language, showcasing proficiency in:

- Vue
- Nuxt
- Nest
- Directus
- Strapi

Initiating projects involves leveraging backend solutions like Directus
to swiftly prototype. The initial phase focuses on essentials, aided by
frameworks like PrimeVue and Tailwind for speed. For more maintainable
versions, I opt for NestJS and an event-driven system. Project-specific
technologies include Postgres, SQLite, MongoDB, REST, CQRS, or GraphQL.

Years of experience offer insights into various programming realms,
necessitating a full-stack approach in agency work. This encompasses
CI/CD, server administration, DNS, and routing. I prefer Docker-based
hosting, steering clear of direct deployment on Kubernetes or cloud
platforms for smaller scales, though some projects are hosted on cloud
providers.

Venturing into cross-platform frameworks, I've utilized Tauri for
FastTrack and Capacitor for smartphone porting in projects like Catch.
Additionally, I have a keen interest in Flutter for future mobile
projects.

Notably, two programming languages have captured my interest:

- Rust
- Elixir

Exposure to Rust began with solving Advent of Code 2022 tasks. Also,
working with the Tauri backend in Rust broadened my understanding.
Elixir's functional programming concept has captivated me, though my
knowledge is basic. Future projects in both languages aim to enhance my
expertise.

## Specialization and Learnings

With over a decade of experience, I specialize in TypeScript, Vue.js,
Nuxt, TailwindCSS, and NestJS. My capabilities span various
applications, including multi-tenancy applications, design systems, web
apps, webshops, and corporate websites.

Frontend development is my forte, combining an eye for design and UX to
create beautiful and user-friendly interfaces. I excel in crafting
scalable and maintainable component libraries, following the atomic
design pattern with my own extensions. My backend design aligns with the
atomic design's isolated component concept, implemented through
event-driven architectures.

My focus is on building applications that resonate with users and
myself. While I enjoy refactoring and improving code, I recognize the
challenge of finding an endpoint in the endless cycle of enhancement and
new possibilities within the web ecosystem. I strive for better and more
generic solutions without succumbing to perfectionism.

## Additional Abilities

Considering the end-user experience, I've delved into devOps and
deployment strategies. Proficient in setting up CI/CD pipelines,
performing server administration, and managing infrastructure, I possess
basic knowledge of Docker, Ansible, Linux, Swarm, and Kubernetes.
